.TH DNSQUERY 1 "OCTOBER 2018" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
dnsquery \- a command line utility to interrogare DNSs, based on libdnsquery.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  dnsquery [ -d dns_address ] [-s site_name ] 
.BR [-t qtype] [-f]
.BR [-l] [-A | -a type | -u type] [-T secs] 
.BR | [-h] | [-V] 

.SH DESCRIPTION
dnsquery is a tool to send query to DNSs born to test libdnsquery and released as part of its distribution package. A basic use involves the -d flag, the DNS' address and -s, the name to resolve.
It offer features common to other standard command line tools and some other interesting features. The -t flag can dump the received packet, this permits to avoid the use of a sniffer running in privileged mode ( mode "dump"). Using the parameter "ping" with -t it's possible to sent continuosly UDP queries to the DNS, obtaining the response time and the missing answers. <TODO> info. The -t parameters mail and locate set a quesry to obain the MX records and the localization record (LOC) when available.
As default, only the last record will be printed on the screen, to print all the records, include -A, to print all the responses of a spcecific type add -a, to print a record of a specific type use -u. To add a specific timeout, -T is available. You can also obtain the lenght of the response with -l. dnsquery, as standard, will use UDP packets but, adding -f, a TCP connection wil be employed for the query. The flags -V print the version of this program, -h will print a syntax summary.
.SH \OPTIONS
.IP -d DNS_address                                         
Specify the DNS to interrogate.
.IP -s site_name 
Specify a name of a site to resolve (i.e. www.wikipedia.org).
.IP -t query_type.                                                  
Supported types: standard(default), dump, ping, info, mail, locate                                
.IP -A 
Print all responses.                                         
.IP -a response_type. 
Print all responses of a given type. Supported types: a, aaaa, ns, cname, soa, wks, ptr, txt, loc, srv 
.IP -u response_type. 
Print a single response of a given type (see -a).                                    
.IP -T secs
Timeout to <secs> seconds.                         
.IP -l 
Length of the response message.                                       
.IP -f 
Force tcp query.                                             
.IP -h 
Help message.                                     
.IP -V 
Version of this program.                                         
.SH BUGS
This program is a betaversion, please report any bug.
.SH AUTHOR
Gabriele Bonacini <gabriele.bonacini@protonmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DNSQUERY(1)
